I went to class that afternoon with a Western shirt
on that I had cut the sleeves out of because, you
know, working in the oil field while I was bustled
up and everything and had on a pair of Levi's and
boots, Western boots. And we had the first hour.
Everything went along just fine and took our
break. in this was in a little anatomy building out
behind the
TTI, I don't know if you know which building I'm
referring to. Over on the main campus. Yeah, it's
on the main campus there between Zachary and TTI,
that little building. And so we were on the second
floor of that for that lab. And so we went out in the
hall to take our break. And he joined in, which was
very commonplace among several of the faculty.
that was a part of the routine that they join the
students in the hall in a very unobtrusive manner
but still interact and get to know students and so
first thing I knew in that hall here was this man
standing right at me you know I mean he was up about
like this and he was looked and he touched my shirt
some way And I got, and he,
I don't remember exactly what he said, but, in
words, but what he communicated was, you're not
dressed right, and I don't want to see you this way
again. So he didn't. But he didn't have to make a big
thing of it, but he made his way through all, I mean,
he didn't just slug me out. He... dressed up the
whole class within that first week. The first
week, we covered subject matter, but he also kind
of set the tone for us going through school as to the
way that he expected. His unforgettable speech
was the first day of a class, of a course? Yes. And
what was the course? Well, it was the, we had one
lecture and 12 hours of lab in the gross anatomy for
the fall semester. We're all 64 in that. They all
heard it from him. In lecture. That was the
baptism. Yeah. OK. And then
what were some other important first year
courses, experiences?
Well, he had Raymond Reiser for biochemistry, an
extremely knowledgeable man, but not a very
effective
teacher at the undergraduate level. I had him
later in a graduate course and found him to be at
that was his level. He was a graduate teacher. He
was from arts and sciences. Was he full time in the
vet school then? No. See, we also had Harry Kunkel.
They were both from agriculture. Biochemistry
was in agriculture at that time. And as it turns
out, see, Harry Kunkel is one of the teachers
that's pretty high on, you know, he's pretty high
on the pinnacle in my view. Now, what was special
about his teachings? Well, he was very well
informed and very interested in new things, new
information. And a
good lecturer, very well organized in the way he
presented his subject matter. He presented a very
complex subject matter in a very clear way. And of
course, one of the ways that he endeared himself to
my class, well, to me, and I think most, if not all,
of my class was that he clarified Dr. Reiser's
lectures
to us. Did you all have nicknames for Kunkel and
Reiser? Because over on the other campus, Uncle
Kunkel's Mystery Hour. was the course he taught.
And I've never heard one for Riser. I don't
remember a nickname, but he was a source of great
frustration to us. He would try to do things, you
know, there were things that were thought to be
important to teach beginning biochemistry
students that were way long since uh uh he he had
long since gotten away from that like telling
enantiomorphs two chemicals and that are almost
mirror images of each other well that i guess are
mirror images and uh he He just bum-puzzled us with
that, with his illustrations. He was like physics
potter in that he would go to great lengths to
devote a lot of thought to how he was going to
approach explaining this so that we would know or
it would be understanding to us, and yet we just
couldn't get it. Were you all aware that he was
Jewish? Yeah. Did that matter? I don't think, it
may have to some, but I don't think so. You were in
class or lab all day, five and a half days, did you
all have Saturday classes too? Yeah. Five and a
half days? It's pretty full, see Benny Kemp was a
lab instructor in biochemistry, so he was working
on his PhD at that time, and Benny helped
tremendously with to fill in the gaps for us with
the Bible camp. Now, you all refer to yourselves as
first year vet students? Yeah. You didn't say
freshman? Uh-uh. First year. And did you all begin
to refer to yourselves as we're in the vet class of
50? 57. Is that right? Okay, that's right. And so
two years of pre-vet, normally, and then? Four
years. Four, okay.
That first year, where were you living? I lived on
campus in the core area. We had a dorm, we were in
dorm two. Were you still in the core? No. So you ate
in... We ate in Duncan Hall. Duncan, in civilian
outfits. Yeah. And you were free of all of that.
Mm-hmm. And how did you feel about that, about
being free of the court? Yeah, it was a good feeling
just to watch them fall out. Usually,
like for lunch, we were... typically we would get
there after they had marched in. And as you look
back that lecture from Dr. Price and that course,
what were some other important experiences that
first year for you as a future veterinarian?
Well,
I think the animal
nutrition course that Harry Kunkel taught was
very, well it excited me because this was, to me
this was very detailed, involved information.
But it was a clear advancement of information
about animals that I had not known. And I thought,
well, this is what vet school is going to be about
when I get beyond these basics. And
so that was a very important positive
development. Now, in the spring, we had large
animal gross anatomy, and that was taught by a man
by the name of Gibbs, Leon Gibbs, who later fell
into, had some disciplinary difficulties.
And he was in the same department. Of course, the
Department of Veterinary Anatomy consisted of
Dr. Miliff Head, Al Price and Leon Gibbs and Al
Price was obviously the fair-haired boy and Leon
just was not oriented he was not an outgoing sort of
a person and
so he wound up being kind of the the black sheep of
the faculty at least from our experience and
students tried to play pranks you know to catch him
you know for example when we were see we dissected
equine cadavers and the students would different
groups of course you know each each of us were
assigned to a group that had a particular cadaver
and during the first half of the semester well
these would be suspended by chain or heavy rope
from the ceiling and they were standing there and
so we did a great deal of the dissection of the
standing animal and students would go to very
elaborate means to put a nerve inside of artery or
something like that and if we found a parasite in
the digestive tract we'll take that out and put it
in the heart and then call him over and want to know
you know very innocently well what's this so it
just just uh bedeviled the poor man. Did he ever
fall prey to those? Did he ever believe? Well,
sometimes it would just about get him in. There
were the most flagrant and the one that really just
we didn't know there for a week or two whether any of
us were going to pass the course. that were in that
section, but one of our classmates, and he's a
friend of mine, lives in Kerrville now, retired
there,
and he, after we had, this was pretty far into the
semester, and his horse was a gelding, and so he cut
the penis off, this particular day and then went
over to a neighboring one that was a mare and it was
quite a chore but he stuffed that into the tract of
the mare and left it there till
I think another it was another lab and he he got the
students to that had that and maybe he was over
there and he yeah I think that's the way it was he
they were all milling around and he called held up
his hand Dr. Gibbs would you come over and help us
with this we can't figure out what this is right
here and so Dr. Gibbs pulled that out you know and it
just caught him you know and went all over him it
wasn't that bad a thing but it He was really, really
angry. And he was an individual who got very red.
When he got angry, he got red in the face. And he
really got, and he just left and didn't come back in
for the lab. That, how academically demanding was
that first year of vet school compared to what
you'd had before?
Well, it was, for me, it was easier than the, well,
that summer with inorganic chemistry because of
the time crunch. And then in the sophomore year, I
did well in organic chemistry and made B's in
physics, but I made a B and an A in organic, the two
courses. But I really had to work at them. And that
was just a matter of disciplining yourself to work
on something that really wasn't your primary
interest. But this stuff, you know, these things
were all really quite interesting. And I found
them to be. Based on what you now know,
How would you rate the quality of the instruction
that first year? Was it up to date for that era?
Yeah. What about the applied compared to the
theoretical?
Did it have an appropriate blend of those two?
Yeah.
Not to the extent that the students receive now,
but I thought there was enough applied in it to
serve as a teaser just to kind of keep your interest
up. But there still was just a tremendous amount.
We were expected to learn so much more anatomy so
many more terms than they are now they they just
don't worry that much with with total
comprehensive anatomy they'll like you know
around a joint they don't we had to know we were
expected to know any and every structure now that
was an impossibility but still that was the
challenge to us and we were given access to all of
that information. Now the point will be that this
is the
knee joint or the stifle joint, and these are the
important structures you should know about, and
so that's the approach that's used. As far as you
could tell at that time and in looking back, Was
there any attempt to intimidate y'all, like the
old thing, look on left and right, that they used to
do with fish? Left and right, one of you's not going
to be here three years from now. Was there any of
that in vet school? Or did you feel they were
encouraging all of you? Dr. Turk would do this
occasionally, but he wasn't serious about it. Did
you have him as a freshman? No. No. So you were
encouraged. Was there any effort to emphasize
small animal, large animal, applied or
theoretical? Not until you got... The emphasis
the first three years was in total veterinary
education. And the goal... The goal of that
faculty was to educate an individual to be as
well-rounded a veterinarian as possible with no
deficiencies, no areas of glaring deficiency.
and the expectation was that the individual would
be functional
in both in treating both pets and livestock
but would acquire the real finesse and so on after
graduation. And you continued to think of a large
animal as your goal?
Well, no, I did until I worked after, in a practice,
but after my third year in vet school and before my
senior year but you know that was a large fire
engine practice as i call it and as many of them were
and uh
i saw the the not so fun side of livestock working
with livestock right uh but back at the at the vet
school as far as y'all knew they hoped everybody
would would survive academically and there was
encouragement there was positive encouragement
generalize about your class where were they from
what were their family background
geographically their attitudes their values
well we had uh
The majority of my class was from smaller towns. In
Texas? In Texas. We had a cluster of probably on the
order of eight to ten Houstonians in the class.
First generation college students? Well, a lot of
of particularly the ones from smaller towns was
the case. There were a number of first generation
type. Now we did, in our class we had five or six
older, somewhat older students who were 25
to 35 years of age. And some of them had been in the
service before, and there were various reasons, I
guess, for their coming on when they did. We had
several from the class before us. That is, they
spent three years in pre-vet.
But I would say at least half of the class was a
two-year had gone through two-year pre-vet?
About how many of them were farmer ranch boys in
background? Oh,
I would have guessed probably on the order of 40. So
maybe two-thirds. Yeah. And how many had gone to
A&M for their pre-vet?
Probably about two-thirds. Any out-of-staters
then? Yeah, we had the Louisiana crews. Oh, that
was already? Uh-huh. How did they fare? Well,
my class was a little different, a little unusual
in that we had a large number of students, people
who started out with us who went to medical school,
dropped out and went to medical school, and a
couple went to dental school. I think of 64, I think
there were 13 that did that. And so our class was
referred to for a few years as being that that
particular class where so many of them and what
were they and this included about uh see we we i
think we had nine from louisiana and i think three
of them did that went into medical school were
there were there any activities early in that
first year to bring you all together any social or
any other kind of well we had the What at that time
was a glorified, it was a barbecue and a beer bust
that the class before us put on for us. And that's
the way it was done for many, many years. And then
probably you may remember the
barbecue that this had really expanded by the
seventies in but we still had one in the first week
or two of classes. And the second year class always
was responsible for it. In your first year, where
was it held? At the VFW grounds on 21, Highway 21.
And
faculty and all students came, not just your
class? That's right. No, no, this was just our
class and the sophomore class, the two classes.
And
there was a feeling of warmth? Yeah, we had, there
was good rapport established during that.
The faculty all, particularly the faculty who
were teaching those classes, it was, you just saw
them there. They didn't, it wasn't something that
maybe one or two faculty would show up. But, you
know, with Al Price's value system being around a
bunch of beard up students would not have been his
idea of a pleasant evening. But he was there, and he
would really join in telling stories and enjoying
the stories and things like that. And
so for you and your buddies going through that fall
semester, what was, or that whole first year you
lived on campus, what was your, what was a typical
routine? You got up, went to chow. went over to the
vet school, and we had a lot of labs. The labs, you
know, the gross anatomy class, for example, just
use that as an example, we had three four-hour labs
a week.
So for each four hours, we got one hour of credit.
See, that was a four-hour course. We got We had one
hour of lecture and three, four hour labs. So that
was a four hour course. 13 hours of contact time
with that. That was cut back then a little later on
in the scheme of things. I'm not talking about
while I was a student, but while I was on the
faculty. When we went through the trimester, see,
everything, all the four hour labs were reduced to
a three hour lab. And then in the 70s, well, most of
the three-hour labs were reduced to a two-hour
lab.
You went over to the vet school. You were there all
morning. Did you all go back to Duncan for supper? I
mean, for lunch? For lunch, uh-huh. And we'd get
there. Usually, we were 12, 10, 12, 15 getting
there. We had to eat. And then be right back. For a
one o'clock. Uh-huh. Then you're there all
afternoon. Then back to Chow where there are some
labs at night. But did you go back to the vet school
at night or did you study in your room? Both. As we
began to prepare for exams, well, we'd often go
back.
But, see, we were a large... number of us were
living in dorm two, and so we were really
concentrated, and the class ahead of us were
living in that particular dorm, so we had a
concentration of vet students. Was there good
bull going on elsewhere in the dorm?
There'd be some nights, yeah, there'd be. But the
vet students, y'all weren't involved in that? Not
too much. OK, so wasn't any drown outs and all that.
Then Saturday in class or lab till noon. Yeah. And
by and large, then you took Saturday afternoon and
Sunday off.
That was pretty much the routine. Now, we didn't
have, you know, we'd have an hour free time in the
morning maybe or maybe two hours sometimes. What
would you do with that? Well when we were I remember
when we were sophomores or our second year in vet
school we were living in I lived in law hall with a
group and we would bust it back if we sometimes when
we had an hour but especially if we had a two hour and
I think there was a maybe Tuesdays and Thursdays,
we may have had a two-hour break in the middle of the
morning. And we'd go back to the room and play shoot
the moon. That just got to be a big thing with the
group, and we were very competitive with it. So
rather than studying like theoretically you
would, and like we were more inclined to do as
freshmen, I mean, our first year, we... Right, and
you vet students attended Silver Taps, and you
went to Bonfire. The ones that lived on campus,
uh-huh. But when you were a vet student, you all
didn't work on... Didn't work on Bonfire, uh-uh.
Academically, the first year, how did it go?
It went well. And were grades then posted publicly
in vet school? Oh, yeah. I did well in vet school. I
thought you had. There were five of us that kind of
built a little, well, there was a gap anyway
between. Did the five of y'all get a nickname?
Well. That's tellable? Trying to think of the
group.
We had, the top student in our class was a guy by the
name of Wallace Klebb. Wally was the captain of the
track team his senior year. And he's been, and he
was president of the Letterman's, he's been
president of the Letterman's. CLEB or KLEB? KLEB.
Wallace Klebb. He practiced for many, many years
in Houston, small animal practice, in his
century.